Johannes Kepler: Somnium (The Dream)
SOMNIUM
A Translation by Reverend Normand Raymond Falardeau, S.S.S.
In 1608 when discords raged between the two brothers, Prince Rudolph and
the Archduke Matthias, the populace scrutinized their actions, comparing
them with examples taken from Bohemian history. At that time I was driven
by the same curiosity to apply myself to the study of Bohemian legends.
When I chanced upon the legend of the Libyan virago, so celebrated in the
art of magic, something happened. On a certain night after I had attentively
contemplated the Moon and the stars I peacefully settled on my couch and
fell into a rather deep sleep. In my sleep I seemed to have picked up a book,
from the bookshelf to read it through. The drift of the book was as follows
My name is Duracotus and my fatherland Iceland called Thule by the
ancients. My mother, Fiolxhild who died recently left me at leisure to write
something which I already ardently desired to do. While she lived she
diligently saw to it that I did not write, for she said that there were many
malicious usurpers of the arts, who, because they did not understand
anything, on account of the ignorance of their mind, misrepresented them
and made laws detrimental to the human race. Under these laws, many men
would assuredly have been condemned and swallowed up in the abysses of
Hekla. What my father's name was she never told me. She asserted that he
was a fisherman who had die at the age of one hundred and fifty when I was
three years old. He had been married for seventy years more or less.
In my early childhood, my mother led me by the hand or, lifting me up in
her arms frequently brought me to the lower ridges of Mount Hekla
especially around the feast of Saint John when the Sun, visible for 24 hours,
leaves no room for night. She gather many herbs and at home cooked them
with various religious rites. She made small sacks from goat skins and when
these were inflated with herbal concoctions, she brought them to the
neighboring harbor to be sold to placate the captains of the ships. Thus she
provided herself with the means of sustenance.
Out of curiosity on one occasion I had opened one of the sacks. My mother
unaware of what had happened sold it. I had taken out the herbs from the
linen cloth, ornamented with needlework and displaying various symbols. By
opening this sack I had defrauded her of her profit. My mother, inflamed
with rage, said that she would give me to the skipper as his own in place of
the sack, so that she could keep the money. On the next day he
unexpectedly set sail from the harbor under a favorable wind bound for the
Island of Norway. After several days under the rising north wind, he was
brought between Norway and England. He passed through the channel and
made his way towards Denmark because he had letters of an Icelandic
Bishop to be delivered to Tycho Brahe, the Dane, who lived on the Island of
Hveen. Then a fourteen year old boy, I was growing seriously ill by reason of
the tossing of the ship and the unusual temperature of the air. When the
ship had been landed along with the letters the skipper left me there in the
home of an island fisherman and set sail again with the promise of returning.
After the letters were handed over, Brahe in a very cheerful mood began to
ask me many questions. I did not understand him because I did not know
the language except for a few words. He gave all his time to his students,
whom he cared for in large numbers. Through Brahe's liberality they could
frequently speak to me. With a few weeks' practice I began to speak Danish
in a tolerable way. I was no less prepared to answer them than they were to
question me. I marveled at many unfamiliar objects. I recounted many
recent happenings in my fatherland to my admirers.
Finally, when the ship's captain returned to take me back, Brahe kept me.
This made me exceedingly happy.
Astronomical exercises pleased me to an extraordinary degree. For whole
nights Brahe and his students devoted themselves to the study of the Moon
and the stars using wonderful machines. This practice brought my mother
back to mind since she also frequently conversed with the Moon. By this
stream of events, although I was considered a semi-barbarian on account of
my birthplace and indigent circumstances, I came to a knowledge of the
most divine of sciences, which prepared my way for greater
accomplishments.
After living on this island of Hveen for several years, I desired to revisit my
native land. On account of the science I had acquired I supposed that it
would not be difficult me to rise up to some degree of honor in my own
nation of unskilled men. I asked a obtained permission to depart from my
patron, bade him farewell and came to Copenhagen. My traveling
companions freely took me under their protection because of my familiarity
with their language and country. I returned home five years after I had left.
My first source of joy upon my return was to find that my mother was still
living and rendering the same services that she formerly did. Since I was still
alive and provided with a means of livelihood, I put an end to her continual
sorrow for having abandoned her son in a fit of anger. Autumn was
approaching and those long nights of ours were drawing near. In December
the Sun, scarcely rising a little at noon, is again hidden from sight. My
mother stayed close to me now that she was free from her work and did not
leave me no matter where I went. Because of my letters of
recommendation, I was questioned about the lands I had visited, and even
questions concerning the heavens. My mother took pleasure in comparing
the extent of knowledge I had gathered and what she herself discovered as
true. She declared that she was now ready to die so that she could leave her
son heir to that information which she alone possessed.
By nature I had a real thirst for learning new things. So I asked my mother
about her art and which teachers in her country stood out above the rest.
Then, on a certain day, when there was leisure for her to speak, she
repeated in this manner all she knew from the very beginnings: Duracotus,
my son, knowledge is available not only in other provinces to which you
traveled but also in our own homeland. You have made me realize the
enchantment of other regions. But even if we have coldness, darkness and
other discomforts which I now feel oppress us, we still abound in people with
talent. We have among us very gifted spirits who shunned the greater light
of other regions and the chattering of men and they sought our shaded
areas to converse familiarly with us. Of these spirits nine were important.
One of these, by far the gentlest and most innocent, was particularly known
to me. This spirit was disclosed by 21 marks. Often, in a split second, I was
transported by its power to other shores which I selected for myself. If I
were kept away from certain places on account of their distance, I gained
ground by questioning about those places just as if we were present there.
He reviewed for me very many facts about those objects that you had
examined with your eyes, accepted from report, taken out of books. I would
especially like you to become a spectator, my companion, of that region
concerning which he told me. How wonderful were those things which he
told me about it. He conjured up Levania.
Without delay, I agreed that she should summon her teacher. I sat in
council, prepared to hear both the entire purpose of the journey and the
description of the region. Spring was upon the region. As soon as the Moon
was in crescent, it began to shine forth since the Moon was in crescent, it
Sun had hidden under the horizon joined to the planet after the Sun had
hidden under the horizon joined to the planet Saturn in the sign of Taurus.
My mother, withdrawing from me into the nearest crossroads and uttering
cry few words in a loud clamor set forth her request. After she completed
the ceremonies, she returned and demanding silence with the palm of her
right hand outstretched she sat down near me. Scarcely had we hidden our
heads with a cloth (as was the custom) when behold, there arose the
hawking of a hoarse lisping voice and immediately it began to speak in this
way, but in the Islandic language.
The Daemon from Lavania
The island of Levania is located fifty thousand German miles high up in the
air. The journey to and from this island from our Earth is very seldom open;
but when it is accessible, its easy for our people. However, the
transportation of men, joined as it is to the greatest danger of life, is most
difficult. We do not admit sedentary, corpulent or fastidious men into this
retinue. We choose rather those who spend their time persistently riding
swift horses or who frequently sail to the Indies, accustomed to subsist on
twice-baked bread, garlic, dried fish, and other unsavory dishes. There are
dried up old women especially suited for our purpose. The reason for this is
well known. From early childhood they are accustomed to riding goats, or on
mantles, and to travel through narrow passes and through the immense
expanse of the Earth. Although Germans are not suitable, we do not reject
the dry bodies of Spaniards.
The whole journey, far though it may be, is completed in four hours at most.
Our departure time happens when we are busiest, before the Moon begins
its eclipse in its eastern section. If the Moon becomes full while we are still
on our way, our return journey is impossible. The occasion becomes so brief
that we have few humans and not any other beings except the most helpful
toward us. Forming a column we seize any man of this kind and all of us
pushing upward raise him to the heights. The initial shock is the worst part
of it for him, for he is spun upward as if by an explosion of gunpowder and
he flies above mountains and seas. On that account he must be drugged
with narcotics and opiates prior to his flight. His limbs must be carefully
protected so that they are not torn from him, body from legs, head from
body and so that the recoil may not spread over into every member of his
body. Then he will face new difficulties: intense cold and impaired
respiration. These circumstances which are natural to spirits are applied
force to man. We go on our way placing moistened sponges to our nostrils.
With first section of the voyage complete, our conveyance becomes easier.
Then we expose our bodies freely to the air and withdraw our hands. All
these persons are gathered into a ball within themselves, by reason of
pressure, a condition which we ourselves produce almost by a mere sign of
the head. Finally, on arrival at the moon, the body is directed into its
intended place by its own accord. This critical point is of little use to us
spirits because it is excessively slow. Therefore, as I said, we accelerate by
gravity and go in front of the man's body, lest by a very strong impact into
the Moon he might suffer any harm. When the man awakes, he usually
complains that all his members suffer from an ineffable lassitude, from
which, however, he completely recovers when the effect of the drugs wears
off, so that he can walk.
Numerous other difficulties occur which would take too long to recount.
Nothing happens to us that is entirely evil. How long those shadows of the
Earth are which we inhabit on the moon in a compact manner! When these
men have reached Levania, we are at hand. They seem to be climbing from
a ship on to land. There we speedily withdraw into the caves and gloomy
places lest the Sun at present in the open but about to eclipse a little later
from a pleasant resting place, casts us out and forces us to follow the
departing shadow. Our ingenuity exercises itself in moments of decision. We
join ourselves to the daemons of this province and a society begins when the
Sun first begins to fail the locality. Gathered together in crowds we deviate
from our course into the shadow. And if the shadow hits the Earth with its
sharp point, which often happens, we shall fall heavily upon Earth and our
fellow soldiers, for we are allowed no other result when men have witnessed
the Sun's eclipse. From this it follows that the eclipses of the Sun are
dreaded.
As a consequence, these comments shall be made about the journey into
Levania. I shall speak about the shape itself of the province, beginning as do
geographers with those things which happen to it from above.
Even if the whole of Levania has the appearance of fixed stars in common
with us, yet one observes very many movements and numbers of planets
different from those which we see from Earth so that all of their astronomy
has another meaning.
Just as geographers divide the Earth's globe into five zones due to celestial
phenomena, so Levania consists of two hemispheres, the one of the
Subvolvans, and the other of the Privolvans. Of these two hemispheres, the
Subvolvans always see their Volva, or our Earth, which to them is like our
Moon, and the Privolvans are completely deprived of the sight of their Volva.
The circle dividing their hemispheres, similar to our solstices' colure, passes
through the poles of the world and is called divisor.
I shall explain first what is common to both hemispheres. All Levania suffers
the same alternations of day and night as we do, but during the year they
lack other annual changes. Throughout Levania its days are almost equal to
its nights, except for the fact that for the Privolans each day is regularly
shorter than its own night whereas the Subvolvans' day is regularly longer.
What is altered in an eight-year cycle will have to be mentioned later on.
Under both poles half of the Sun is concealed for the equalization of the
night, the other half shines, forming a circle around the mountains. Because
the stars are moving, Levania seems to stand no less motionless to its
inhabitants than our Earth to us. One of our months equals one of their
nights and a day. When the Sun is going to rise early in the morning, almost
a completely new sign of the zodiac is more apparent the day after rather
than the day before, Just as in one of our years the Sun revolves 365 times
and the orbits of fixed stars 336 times; or more precisely, in four years the
Sun revolves 1461 times but the orbits of fixed stars 1465 times for us, so
for them in one year the Sun goes around 12 times, the orbit of fixed stars
13 times; or more precisely, in 8 years the Sun goes around 99 times, the
orbits of fixed stars 107 times. But they are more familiar with a 19 year
cycle. In that number of years, the Sun rises 235 times and fixed stars 254
times.
The Sun rises in the central or innermost parts of the Subvolvans when the
last quarter is visible to us; then to the innermost parts of the Privolans
when the first quarter appears to us. What I say about the central parts
must be understood of all the semicircles led through the poles and the
middles at right angles to the divisor. You can call them the semicircles of
the Medivolvans.
The circle that is the intermediate between poles producing the same effect
as the equator of our Earth will be called by the same name. It cuts the
divisor into equal parts and the Medivolva in opposite points. The Sun passes
over some places on the equator on two opposite days of the year precisely
at the point of noon. At midday the Sun digresses from the zenith to the
others dwelling on both sides of the poles.
On Levania there is some variation of summer and winter but that must not
be compared with our own nor as we have in the same places at the same
time of the year. In a ten-year period their summer changes from one part
of the star-year to the opposite part, from the same intended place. In a 19
star-year cycle or in 235 days, summer occurs 20 times and winter just as
often towards the poles, and at the equator 40 times. Just as we have our
months they have 6 days in all during the summer, the rest belong to
winter. The same alternation is scarcely felt around the equator because the
Sun does not digress to the sides beyond 50 backwards and forwards from
those places. It is felt more next to the poles and those places that have or
lack the Sun alternately at six-month intervals just as there are on Earth
those of us who dwell under one of the two poles. Levania's globe is also
divided into five zones corresponding somewhat to our terrestrial zones; that
is, the Torrid and Frigid Zones have scarcely 10 degrees each; all the rest
falls in proportion to our Temperate Zone. The Torrid Zone passes over
through the middle parts of the hemisphere, half its length through the
Subvolvans, the other through the Privolvans.
There are four cardinal points to the sections of the equator's and the
zodiac's circles. We call these points equinoxes and solstices, and from these
sections is the start of the zodiacal circle. From its beginning to its
consequence the motion of fixed stars is very swift, namely twenty tropical
years, that is, defined by one summer and one winter. Fixed stars cross
through the whole zodiac which we do in about 26,000 years, So much for
its first motion.
The cause of their secondary motions differs no less from those which
appear to us although much more intricate. Besides the many inequalities
existing between ourselves and all six planets, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the
Sun, Venus, Mercury, they have three others that occur; namely, two of
longitude, one diurnal, the second through the cycle of 8 1/2 years and the
third of latitude through a 19-year circuit. The Privolvans' centers have the
Sun at noon more than their other counterparts whereas the Subvolvans
have it less than if the Sun rises. Both are of the same opinion that the Sun
inclines towards the Subvolvans for a few minutes, back and forth from the
ecliptic and then among those fixed stars. These variations, as I have said,
are restored in the space of 19 years into their former marks. This
wandering takes hold of the Privolvans somewhat more, somewhat less of
the Subvolvans. Although the Sun and the fixed stars are set to fall equally
around Levania by its first motion, yet the Sun increases for the Privolvans
at midday but nearly nothing beneath the fixed stars. At midday the Sun
appears very swift for the Subvolvans although the contrary is true about
the middle of the night. As a result, under the fixed stars the Sun is seen to
make certain leaps as it were, separate ones for each individual day.
The same is true on Venus, Mercury and Mars, but on Jupiter and Saturn
they are almost imperceptible.
Yet every day's motion is not even the same each day at similar hours.
However, it is sometimes slower with the Sun than with all the fixed stars,
yet faster in the opposite part of the year at the same hour. This lassitude
goes back and forth through the days of the year in such a way that it now
occupies summer then winter which feels the swiftness in another year. All
this occurs in one absolute cycle through a little less than nine years. The
day becomes longer than the night (by a natural slowness, not as we have it
on Earth by an unequal section of the orbit of a natural day).
Though the slowness falls upon the Privolvans in the middle of the night, it
accomplishes its deviation before another day; if, on the other hand, it is
completed during the day, then night and day are equal because it happens
once in 9 years. This is completely changed for the Subvolvans.
Such characteristics are found common to both hemispheres.
Concerning the Privolvan's Hemisphere
What belongs separately to each hemisphere is the great diversity between
them. Not only the presence and absence of Volva display quite dissimilar
spectacles, but these common phenomena themselves differ so greatly here
and there in their effects that one could perhaps more correctly call the
Privolvan hemisphere intemperate the Subvolvan temperate. The Privolvans'
night lasts 15 or 16 of our days, terrible with never-ending shadows, as are
our moonless nights. The rays of the Volva never light upon them. For this
reason everything becomes stiff from the ice, the frost and from the sagest
and most powerful winds. One day ensues, 14 of our days long, or a little
less than that in which the Sun appears larger. The Sun is slow under fixed
stars and there are no winds. Then, it becomes intolerable hot. Thus for the
space of one of our months or of one Levanian day and in one and the same
place, the heat becomes 15 times hotter than our Africa, and the cold,
unbearable.
Especially should it be noted that the planet Mars is sometimes observed by
those in the central parts of the Privolva at midnight and for others at the
beginning of their own night, as almost greater than double what we see.
Concerning the Subvolvans' Hemisphere
As I cross over to this hemisphere, I begin with its frontiersmen who inhabit
the divisor circle. Particular to them is the fact that they observe the
digressions of Venus and Mercury from the Sun as much greater than we do.
To these same people Venus appears at certain times as greater than double
our view of Venus, especially to those who live at the North Pole.
The most pleasant of all occupations on Levania is the contemplation of its
Volva. Levanians enjoy the sight of their Volva as we do our Moon which the
Privolvans lack completely because they are deep within. Because of their
Volva's perennial present this region is called Subvolva just as the rest is
called Privolva because it has bee deprived of the view of its Volva.
When our Moon rises full and goes over distant homes, we Earth-dwellers
see it as equal to open circle of a large wooden keg. When it rises to the
middle of the sky, the Moon brings to mind something like the form of a
human face. The Subvolvans see their Volva in the middle of their own sky.
(The Volva takes this position for those who dwell in the middle or the navel
of this hemisphere) with a diameter a little less than four times longer than
our Moon to us so that if we set up a comparison of disks, their Volva's
surface is fifteen times greater than our Moon. To those whose Volva
continuously cleaves fast to their horizon, it appears in the shape of a
distant fiery mountain.
Just as we differentiate our regions by means of greater or lesser elevations
of the pole although we do not necessarily seethe pole itself with our eyes,
so the altitude of their ever present Volva fulfills the same need for them,
varying as it does in different places.
As I said, the Volva hangs directly over certain place s whereas it seems to
have been suck down close to the horizon's circle for the remaining regions.
In every place it gives evidence of an ever constant altitude.
Still the Subvolvans have their own poles which are not among those fixed
stars, where we have the poles of the world but around other fixed stars,
then these are ecliptic signs of the poles for us. In 19 lunar years these
poles pass through small circles around the poles of the ecliptic under the
constellation Draco and its opposites, Xiphias [Dorado] and Passer [Piscis
Austrinus] and Nebecula Major [Large Magellenic Cloud]. When these poles,
in one-fourth of a circle, are away from their Volva, so that the regions can
be classified both according to the poles and according to the Volva, it is
apparent how great is the advantage with which they surpass us. These
poles mark the longitude of places by their immobile Volva and mark the
latitude by both their Volva and their poles. This differs for us because we
have no means of obtaining our longitudes except a most subservient and
scarcely distinguishable inclination of a magnetic needle
The Subvolvans' Volva remains as it were fixed with a nail to the heavens
and is immobile in this place. Other stars and the Sun itself cross over from
sunrise to sunset. Nor is there any night in which none of the fixed stars in
the zodiac hide themselves behind this Volva and emerge once again from
the opposite region. Although the same fixed stars not accomplish this every
night, still they all change completely among themselves; is, those that
move up to 6 or 7 degrees from the ecliptic. In 19 years the whole circuit is
made so that they return exactly to their original positions.
The Subvolvans' Volva neither increases no decreases any less than our
Moon. The same cause exists for both the presence of the sun or the
digression from the Volva. If study its nature, the time is the same; but the
Subvolvans measure them by one method, we do so by another. Subvolvans
think that one day and one night is the space of time during which all the
increases and decreases of this Volva are completed. We call this space of a
time a month. The Volva rarely hides itself from the Subvolvans even in new
Volva on account of its size and brightness, especially for the Subvolvan
polar dwellers who lack the Sun at the time. At midday the Volva turns its
extremities upwards for the Subvolvans in the intervolvian period itself. In
general, for those who dwell between the Volva and the poles under the
medivolvan circle, the new Volva is the sign of noon and the first quarter of
evening. The full Volva separates equal parts of the night, and the last
quarter brings the Sun back. Those who have the Volva and the poles set on
the horizon live at the intersection of the equator with the divisor. Their
morning and evening comes in the new and full Volva, their midday or
midnight, in the quarters. From these observations we can draw conclusions
about those who dwell between those places described above.
The Subvolvans differentiate the hours of the day by means of these and
other phases of their Volva so that the closer the Sun and Volva come so
much the closer is midday for the Subvolvans and evening or sunset for the
Medivolvans. The Subvolvans are much better equipped than we are to
measure out the periods of night which regularly last 14 of our hours. We
said that outside that sequence of phases of the Volva, whose full Volva
marks the middle of the night for the Medivolva itself, the Volva already
distinguishes their hours. Although the Volva seems in no way to change
place, yet our Moon, on the contrary, revolves within a place and adequately
explains the surprising number of marks which persistently change from its
rising to its setting. When the marks return after one such revolution, the
Subvolvans have one hour in time equal to a little more than one of our days
and nights. This then is the only uniform measure of time. We have
indicated above that the Sun and the stars daily go around the
Moon-dwellers in an uneven way from the fact that this perturbation of the
Volva especially projects itself, if you compare it with the prolongations of
fixed stars from the Moon.
The upper northern section of that Volva seems to have two halves; that is,
one that is rather hidden, as it were covered with continuous marks, and the
other somewhat clearer, spreading in the north a bright cincture on the
dividing line of both. The figure is difficult to explain.
On its more easterly section we perceive something like the front of a
human head, cut off ~ at the shoulders, bending over to kiss a little girl
clothed in a long robe while her arm stretches backward and lures a leaping
seducer. The wider and larger part of the spot projects itself toward the west
without any visible shape. In the other half of the Volva a brightness is
spread more widely than the spot. You might call it the image of a bell
hanging down from a rope swinging toward the west. The upper and lower
parts cannot be compared with anything.
It is not sufficient that the Volva distinguishes the Subvolvan hours of the
day in this way, but rather that it give clear indications of the parts of the
year if anyone pays attention to it or if the purpose of fixed stars escapes
anyone. When the Sun passes into Cancer, the Volva clearly indicates the
North Pole of its perturbation. There is a certain small dark spot above the
image of the girl, inserted into the middle of the brightness. This brilliance is
moved from the highest and furthest section of the Volva toward the east;
and from here, once it has made the descent into the disk, is moved toward
the west. The mark again withdraws from that last position into the top of
the Volva toward the east and always appears there. But when the Sun goes
into Capricorn this spot cannot be seen anywhere because the entire circle
together with its pole hides behind the body of the Volva. During these two
parts of the year the spots fall directly toward the west. During the
intervening periods placed in the east or in Libra, and the spots either sink
down crosswise or climb up in a curved line. This presentation teaches us
that when the center of the Volva's body remains at rest, the poles of the
perturbation on the arctic circle go around those poles once in a year's time.
The more diligent observers see that this Volva does not remain the same
size. During the hours of the day when the stars move swiftly, the diameter
of the Volva is much greater so that it is then clearly four times larger than
our Moon.
Now, what shall I say about the Sun's and the Volva's eclipses which occur
on Levania at the same time as the eclipses of the Sun and Moon occur here
on Earth's globe, but evidently for different reasons? When we see the Sun's
total eclipse, their Volva eclipses, whereas when our Moon eclipses, the Sun
eclipses for them. Yet, not all these I things agree exactly. They themselves
often see partial eclipses of the Sun when none of the Moon fails us. On the
contrary, they are often exempt from eclipses of their Volva when we have
partial eclipses of the Sun. They have eclipses of their Volva in full Volva just
as we have ours of the Moon in full Moon; they have eclipses of the Sun in
new Vulva as we have in new Moon. Because they have long days and
nights, they experience most frequent eclipses of both heavenly bodies. A
great number of our eclipses cross over to our antipodes, and of theirs, to
their antipodes. The Privolvans see none of these, but the Subvolvans alone
see everything.
The Subvolvans never see a total eclipse of their Vulva, but through the
body of the Vulva there crosses over them a certain small spot, reddish in its
borders, dark in the center. This small spot makes its entrance from the
eastern section of the Volva and leaves through the western edge; the same
is true of the natural spots of the Volva, speedily anticipating them. The
duration extends to a sixth part of their hour or four of ours.
The cause of the Subvolvans' solar eclipse is the Vulva, as our Moon causes
ours. This cannot occur, because their Volva measure four times greater
than the Sun, without having the Sun cross from the east through the south
behind the immovable Vulva into the west. The Sun would then disappear
very close behind the Vulva with the result that part or the Sun's whole body
would be hidden from it. Frequently there is a very notable eclipse of the
Sun's whole body because it lasts for several of our hours, when the light of
both the Sun and the Volva is eclipsed at the same time This is an important
experience for the Subvolvans who have other nights not as dark as their
days because of the brilliance and magnitude of their ever-present Vulva. In
the Sun's eclipse both heavenly bodies, the Sun and the Vulva, are hidden
from the Subvolvans.
As regards the Subvolvans, the eclipses of the Sun have this one point in
common. It quite frequently happens that the brilliance rises on the opposite
side when the Sun has scarcely been hidden behind the body of the Vulva,
as if the Sun had expanded and embraced the whole body of the Vulva; yet,
at some other time and in so many sections the Sun appears less than the
Vulva. Complete darkness does not always occur, unless the centers of the
bodies coincide closely together and the regular arrangement of the
diaphanous centers Unite. The Vulva does suddenly disappear so that it
cannot be discerned at all, although the Sun completely hides itself behind
the Vulva, except in the very moment of the longest eclipse. At the
beginning of a total eclipse, however, the Vulva still remains white in some
sections of the divisor as if there it were a living coal present after the flame
was extinguished. After this whiteness disappears, the midpoint of the
longest eclipse is present; (for this is not extinguished in anything less than
the longest eclipse.) When the Volva's whiteness returns (in opposite places
of the circle's divisor), the view of the Sun also draws near. Somehow both
bodies disappear in the midst of the longest eclipse.
These are the appearances in both hemispheres of Levania: the Subvolvan
as well as the Privolvan. From these considerations it is not difficult for me
to pass silent judgment on how greatly the Subvolvans differ from the
Privolvans in other respects.
A Subvolvan night, even if it is 14 of our nights long, lights up the land and
keeps it from cold by the presence of its Volva. Such a great mass, so much
brightness cannot but keep it warm.
Although the Subvolvan day has the annoying presence of the Sun
throughout our 15 or 16 nights, yet, the Sun has no less hostile forces. The
united luminaries attract all the water into that hemisphere until the land
has been completely covered, so that very little of it is visible. On the
contrary, when all the water has been removed from the Privolvan
hemisphere, it becomes dry and cold. Because the hemispheres have the
luminaries divided among themselves, night comes upon the Subvolvans,
day upon the Privolvans. The waters are divided so that the Subvolvan fields
are stripped of everything while the Privolvans enjoy an abundance of
moisture as a negligible relief from the heat.
The whole of Levania stretches out no further than 1400 German miles in
circumference, a fourth part of our Earth. It possesses very high mountains,
very deep and wide valleys and in consequence yields much to our Earth in
perfect roundness. The entire surface is porous, as it were pierced through
with hollow caverns and continuous caves, especially prolonged through the
Privolvans. These hollow places are the principal means that the Privolvans
have to ward off the heat and cold.
Whatever springs from the land or walks upon the land is of a monstrous
size. Increases in size are very rapid. Life is of short duration because all
living things grow to such an enormous bodily mass. The Privolvans have no
fixed dwelling place. In the space of a single day, they traverse the whole of
their world in hordes, following the receding waters either on legs that are
longer than those of our camels, on wings, or in boats. If a delay of very
many days is necessary, they crawl through the caves according to each
one's nature. There are many divers among them and all their living
creatures breathe very slowly. By combining nature with art, they can take
refuge at the bottom of the deep waters. They say that those in the very
depths of the water endure the cold, while the upper waves are boiling hot
from the Sun. Those that remain on the surface are boiled by the midday
Sun and serve as nourishment for wandering colonists. In general, the
Subvolvan hemisphere compares favorably with our cantons, towns and
gardens while the Privolvan resembles our fields, forests and deserts. Other
creatures who find breathing more necessary, retreat into caves which are
supplied with water by narrow canals so that the water may gradually cool
on its long way; but when evening comes, they go out for food. The bark on
trees, the skin on living creatures, or if anything else takes their place, takes
up the greater part of the corporeal mass because it is spongy and porous. If
any creature is taken by surprise in the heat of the day, his skin becomes
hard and scorched and falls off in the evening. Plants in the earth, and there
are a few on the mountain tops, spring up and die on the same day, daily
making room for new growing things.
Their nature is generally like a snake's. They have a strange love for basking
in the noonday Sun, but only close to their caves, so that they can make a
swift and safe retreat.
Others whose spirits have been exhausted by the heat of the day lose their
life, but return through the night, on account of some paradoxical cause like
the production of flies here on Earth. Here and there all over the ground are
scattered masses in the shape of pine cones. Their rinds are sun-burnt
through the day and die, but in the evening produce living creatures when
the hiding places are opened.
In the Subvolvan hemisphere, a special means of alleviation from the heat
are the unbroken clouds and storms which sometimes take hold of half or
more than half of the region.
When I had come to this part of my dream, the wind rose with rumbling rain
which disturbed my sleep and ended one of the last books I had brought
from Frankfurt. When the Daemon, the speaker, and Duracotus, the son
with his mother Fiolxhilda, the listeners, had been left behind, just as they
had been with their heads covered, I came back to my senses, found that
my head was on a cushion and my body wrapped up in a blanket.